---
layout: post

title: The Carmel Mountains

---


![View from the monastery]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/carmel/dave_and_toby.jpg)

On a recent weekend excursion I hiked up the Carmel Mountains to a Druze
village named Usafiya.  The Druze are a 1000 year old offshoot of Shi'ite Islam
and, though considered heretics by mainstream Islam, are granted rights and
autonomy in most of the countries they live. Throughout the Levant, Muslim and
Christian rulers have alternated between persecution and protection of the
Druze; at times, the Druze have been used as an elite force by their hosts.
Muslim rulers relied on the Druze to keep the Crusaders out of Southern Lebanon
and, in modern times, the Israel Defence Forces rely on elite Druze units to
protect the mountainous Northern region of the country. The Druze pledge
fidelity to their host nation, and usually play an out sized role in the
military and government. For instance, Israel's ambassador to the Dominican
Republic, who was previously a delegate at the UN, is a Druze man who often
defended Israel's actions against Arab neighbors. While mainstream
Arab-Israelis often call for the end of the Jewish State, the Druze support it.
This is not unique to Israel, the Druze have a long history of supporting the
ruling state power, in part because of their universalist religion.

![View from the monastery]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/carmel/view_from_monostary.jpg)

The Druze are not the only inhabitants of the Carmel range, in fact this
East-West range in Northern Israel is a site of spiritual significance for all
the Abrahmic religions since it is associated with one of the most prominent
prophets: Elijah. Elijah was the most famous prophet of the Israelites, the
Northern Kingdom of the Hebrews. At this time, multiple gods vied for
prominence among the Canaanites, including Yahweh and Baal. Elijah preached
against Baal and once defeated 450 prophets of the false god in a religious
showdown on Mount Carmel. This victory for the Abrahamic religions is
memorialized by a statue at the Discalced Monastery, an order founded by
crusaders in the 1200s. Elijah is heavily associated with the Messiah and
Christians see links between Jesus of Nazareth and Elijah the Prophet.

![Flipped Car]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/carmel/flipped_car.jpg)
