--- 
layout: post

title: A Bit of History

---

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/caesaria/zichor_shul.jpg)

Last Thursday I received a double dose of History, bridging the gap from the
Second Temple to the modern state of Israel. We started in the town of Zikhron
Ya'akov which lies at the southern end of the Carmel Mountains and is named
after James Jacob Rothschild. James Jacob was the father of Baron Edmond
Rothschild, the youngest son and the founder of a few Jewish towns including
Zikhron Ya'akov. The Rothschilds are perhaps the most famous and prestigious
Jewish family and have received noble titles in both Austria and England.  They
were huge donors to the early state of Israel and you can see many streets,
parks, and towns named after them, including the most famous boulevard in Tel
Aviv.  The picture above is the synagogue where Edmond prayed and below is the
quaint street running through town.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/caesaria/zichor.jpg)

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/caesaria/toby_yaron_zichron.jpg)

Above, a picture of my Israeli friend Yaron and I. Below is a picture of me,
but more interesting is the girl with the giant backpack. This is an Israeli
soldier who is completing compulsory service -- for her it will be two years,
for men it is three. That's a standard issue backpack which the soldiers use to
cart their dirty laundry from the base back home for the weekend.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/caesaria/toby_zichron.jpg)

Later on the same day, we visited Caesarea, a historically Roman style city in
Palestine. The city was never known for its' Jewish spirituality, but rather
for the port, gladiator games, and theater. Like many great archaeological
sites in Israel, it was built by Herod, who ruled Palestine from 74 to 4 BCE.
Herod had some lose Jewish ancestry but he really operated as a client King for
the Romans; he brought a lot of Roman culture to Palestine, angering the local
population. Herod built the most holy surviving site in Judaism -- the Western
Wall -- along with the fortress of Masada: the location of the Jew's greatest
last stand until the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. The time from about 100 BCE to 100
CE were the most tumultuous in Jewish history until the 20th century. There is
so much more I could write about Herod, the Jewish factions and rebellions of
the time, and the relationship with foreign ruling powers but I will instead
leave you with a few pleasant pictures.


Fishing on the Mediterranean.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/caesaria/caesaria_fishers.jpg)

Me in front of the ruins of Caesarea and sitting by the Med.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/caesaria/toby_ruins.jpg)

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/caesaria/IMG_3651.jpg)
