---
layout: post

title: The Carmel Mountains

---

This weekend I hiked up the Carmel Mountains to a Druze village named Usafiya.
The Duze are a 1000 year old offshoot of Shi'ite Islam and, though considered
heretics by mainstream Islam, are granted rights and autonomy in most of the
countries they live. Throughout the Levant, Muslim and Christian rulers have
alternated between persecution and protection of the Druze; at times, the Druze
have been used as an elite force by their hosts. Muslim rulers relied on the
Druze to keep the Crusaders out of Southern Lebanon and, in modern times, the
Israel Defence Forces rely on elite Druze units to protect the mountainous
Northern region of the country. The Druze pledge fidelity to their host nation,
and usually play an outsized role in the military and government. For instance,
Israel's ambassador to the Domican Republic, who was previously a delegate at
the UN, is a Druze man who often defended Israel's actions against Arab
neighbors. While mainstream Arab-Israelis often call for the end of the Jewish
State, the Druze support it. This is not unique to Israel, the Druze have a
long history of supporting the ruling state power, in part because of their
universalist religion.

The Druze are not the only inhabitants of the Carmel range, in fact this
East-West range in Northern Israel is a site of spiritual signifance for all
the Abrahmic religions since it is associated with one of the most prominant
prophets: Elijah. Elijah was the most famous prophet of the Israelites, the
Northern Kingdom of the Hebrews. At this time, multiple gods vied for
prominance among the Canaanites, including Yahweh and Baal. Elijah preached
against Baal and once defeated 450 prophets of the false god in a religious
showdown on Mount Carmel. This victory for the Abrahamic religions is
memorialized by a statue at the Discalced Monostary, an order founded by
crusaders in the 1200s. Elijah is heavily associated with the Messahiah and
Chrisitans see links between Jesus of Nazerath and Elijah the Prophet.
